to you,
Namaskar ji, welcome to 2800 channel,
today we are at the
house of the Independent Charge Minister of the Government of India,
today we will ask him some such questions
because the ministry and the minister, with a lot of
hard work and honesty, with
full dedication, he has given hundred
percent of his efforts to this ministry, today
we can see this ministry all over the world, we can
feel it, today India is
proud, if any one ministry has the most, then it is the
AYUSH Ministry of the Government of India, when
this ministry was formed, when Narendra Modi ji included it
in the circular of the ministry from 1st, then perhaps even the world would
not have known that such a fast growing
ministry could exist, today we are at the house of Shri
Patnaik ji with some such questions,
so now we meet
Shri Patnaik, whom the Honorable Minister of the
Government of India, we meet
Shri Patnaik, the AYUSH Minister of the Government of India, Namaskar,
today we are feeling very proud as
Indians
because the whole world is seen united with Yoga today,
how are you feeling
So a very good environment has been created and I am getting the
support of all of you for
this work. The
idea
that our sages and saints have
brought before us was
this and it was their wish, their dream was that Yoga should be for the
whole of India, not for one caste
but for the whole world and we can
find good things in it and it was their
dream that it should spread all over the world and
people should be able to use it
and a good and healthy world should be created, this was
their dream, from here I want to say that
this dream has now come true due to the efforts of Narendra Bhai Modi ji,
our Prime Minister had supported the proposal that he brought, that
170 out of the sperms should be increased
and this huge initiative of Yoga is
there, it is a matter of pride, this
country has got it, it is a
great achievement
that 21 Durva programs will be held
and all these preparations are going on for this,
every person is participating in it and
Yoga has become a solution, I feel that
in the times to come after World Yoga Day, the
Government of India and your Ministry will become the biggest leader in the world.
What kind of
responsibility do you see yourself in establishing Yoga? Our country has got a good opportunity
in this celebration of International Yoga Day on 25th June. At
that time, people are celebrating shamelessly with great anger. The
whole world is looking at us
and the program of 1st June will be fine.
I would like to say a little about the response that we
wanted. We said that 35000 diseases will be
cured or not. We had kept the data
and after that we just came to know that people are
joining and that number is increasing but
we could not comment on it. We are getting so much
response that at least a program for an elderly person will be organised.
This is just the beginning. The
awareness that should have been created about Yoga in the whole world will
definitely happen in this program.
But the next question is how Yoga should be
spread all over the world. For this,
we have to make a roadmap for the
program of 21st June which will be the main program
here. There is a mechanism in the whole district and the
whole state is supporting them.
This program is being celebrated
not only in India but
also outside the country.  Out of 193 countries, at
least 10 will make this program, it is
a big achievement for India,
so the future program is as I said,
we will promote yoga in the
entire country where it is not there, in fact,
in foreign countries also where yoga is not there,
our program to promote yoga there with the support of those countries,
our program will be made in future,
yoga is India's contribution to the whole world,
first of all we will have to do our
feature plan in every village, so we will have to make yoga reach every house in every village,
so whatever infrastructure is there, a
yoga center will be built in every village and every village will be
connected to that yoga center and through yoga
that person will remain healthy, disease free, this is
our future plan, so whatever needs to be done,
we will have to make a university of yoga,
a
university constitution will have to be made in every state and through this,
our road map is to spread the message of yoga to every person and
before this,
we will have to create Ekta Trust Force and take advice from the yoga
gurus who know something about separation.
We will decide how we should proceed further and by taking action on this,
we will proceed to spread yoga everywhere in the same way as whatever their members have given us. The
responsibility of India is
increasing a lot in this matter, in which
you will reach every village in India with determination
because you have the
infrastructure as well as the government machinery,
but what about those who are looking at you all over the world and by giving you the status of a guru, they want to join it, what about those who are
looking at you all over the world and by
giving you the status of a guru, they want to
join it, just like AYUSH International
became a teacher international in India, in a
strange way it became CBSE International, in the
same way ICC International will be held
in the fifth year which will spread across the world
on a different PPT model or in collaboration with the governments,
it will do something that will be
visible outside India as well, is there any such
plan in the near future, Zaroor
told his son that
yoga is being practiced in some countries even without the help of the government, but to systematize it,
whatever India has done, yoga is a
great contribution of India and we
want that we should do it completely  To
make the world healthy, the work of taking this youth to that level has
reached a little bit,
but to take them to those places where it has not been reached,
we should
take the support of the nation, the state and the people of that
country on the PPP model and whatever
education of yoga is there, from the universities, from the
schools, we will
teach yoga here and there by sending our yoga gurus there and
see what they need, the strength, the leisure of teachers, whatever they need, we will provide
full help to those paths and will
spread it there, so people from many countries of the world,
some of them are NRIs
and some such people who are foreigners, basically
people of foreign origin,
if they come to India, which has full potential and people are
expressing their desire and are also seen on different channels, they
want to take training in yoga in India and then
they want to expand it in their country, then will the
Ministry of AYUSH work in a single window system in that, provide
them all the facilities, there is
definitely a program of this kind, yoga is our state, it is our
tradition and
in many states there are
many such names
that are big names of India.  There are parts where yoga
ashrams are running. As I said, there is an
old historical
part of India, Munger is in Bihar. Similarly,
in Santacruz,
an old ashram is running
which is teaching yoga. There is
Iyengar Yoga. There is a future in many such places in the South.
They have kept this tradition going
and similarly, people from outside come here
and go to yoga camps. This tradition has to be kept going. The
government will
open such yoga centers to promote it.
In Delhi also, there is Morarji Desai
Yogasan Yuva
Internship Centre. It is also
imparting yoga education there. Similar
institutions which will promote yoga and
teach yoga, we have thought of
setting up at least one such center in every state.
When yoga is created and demand will arise, then
we will have to expand its infrastructure. Such
institutions will have to be set up everywhere and
it is our intention to set up these institutions and to
meet the demand for yoga, what is our declared priority in
India in the coming times
and  Education is done
in schools and colleges, whether it is through PPP model
or the government will send its teachers to teach yoga, there is a
plan to make the education system reach every student in every home, definitely
this is a big task on us in the future, that is why
I said in the beginning itself that for
this we will form
a task force of yoga experts, we will
form a committee and through them
we will take their advice on how yoga can reach every village, every school, every village, those elders who
know the natural use of yoga, today Shakun has
completed his life, for this we will bring many people in
this and based on their suggestion our
vision is that if we interview everyone above fifth grade in school through
yo-yo, then
that child will continue to do yoga till old age
and will remain healthy through yoga, this is
our plan,
our thinking is that today we have started it, be it
in the police force, in the department or in many
big training institutes,
our vision is to make yoga compulsory everywhere, as per the suggestion that
comes from their committee, in the same way you can do it.  He
will include it in it and it will be his job to make Yoga reach every
village like God, every village,
every person, every citizen for
our successful transport.
His suggestions along with the punishment of the common man will
also be taken into consideration and whatever suggestion is good, we will include it in it. Should
we give suggestions to him from now on,
when the commission has to be constituted now,
after forming it,
he will definitely consider whatever will be done to me.
Thank you very much
Minister ji for your detailed information and
then in the next meeting we will also
face you with questions on the things that are seen to be implemented in the coming time. Thank you
and give it to
Ajay,
Ajay.